JUDY WOODRUFF: At the
White House, it is Made
in America Week, an effort
to highlight President
Trump's goal of boosting U.S.
manufacturing and job creation.
However, it has again
sparked questions over
Mr. Trump and his family's
businesses, particularly
where their products
are manufactured.
John Yang has the story.
JOHN YANG: Today, the White
House South Lawn was turned into
a showcase for products made
in each of the 50 states.
But not on display, merchandise
sold by the Trump Organization
or Ivanka Trump's fashion
line.
Most of those things
are made overseas.
Here to talk about how
Ivanka Trump's clothing
is made is Matea Gold
of The Washington Post.
She's part of a team of
reporters that investigated
the Ivanka Trump brand's
manufacturing practices.
Matea, thanks for joining us.
In your story, you said that
the Ivanka Trump fashion line
had retail sales of about $100
million last year.
What does she make, and
where does she make them?
MATEA GOLD, The Washington
Post: The Ivanka Trump brand,
which the first daughter still
owns, but doesn't control
on a day-to-day management,
makes clothes, handmade shoes
in an array of overseas
factories, we found exclusively,
in foreign factories.
We traced her current line
of products to five specific
countries, Bangladesh, China,
India, Indonesia, and Vietnam.
There's also customs records
that show that, back in 2013,
some of her shoes were made
in Ethiopia.
And the brand told us that,
while they would like to bring
manufacturing back to the United
States, they don't feel like
it's really possible to do
in a large-scale fashion.
JOHN YANG: And how
does this compare?
We should also note that
the Trump brand, the Trump
Organization brand products made
in about 12 different countries,
including Bangladesh and China.
How does this compare with
the rest of the industry?
MATEA GOLD: Well, the reality
is that the American apparel
industry is very firmly grounded
in globalization and
overseas production.
About 97 percent of the clothes
and shoes sold here in the
United States are made abroad.
And industry experts say that
it is going to be incredibly
difficult to reverse that
trend.
So, the focus in the
industry right now is not
on bringing manufacturing
back in a large-scale
fashion, but rather trying
to give consumers a sense of
confidence that their goods are
not being made by workers
overseas who are being
exploited for their labor.
JOHN YANG: And how does
the Ivanka Trump fashion
line measure up to the
rest of the industry
and that sort of thing in
policing labor conditions
at the factories they use?
MATEA GOLD: We found that the
Ivanka Trump brand lags behind
many in the apparel industry,
both large and small
companies, when it comes
to having oversight of
their foreign production.
Up to now, they have really
relied on their suppliers to
certify that they are complying
with their code of conduct, a
code of conduct, I should note,
that they would not publicly
disclose.
They are taking measures now
to do greater oversight, the
kind of measures that other
companies already have,
such as bringing in a
group to independently
audit factories and
to provide some programs on the
ground to support some of the
women who make their clothes.
JOHN YANG: And what did the
Trump people say to you?
Today, Sean Spicer was asked
today about some of this in the
White House briefing, and said
it would be inappropriate for
him to talk about a private
business at the White House
podium.
What did they tell you in
response to these things?
MATEA GOLD: Well, the president
of the Ivanka Trump brand,
Abigail Klem, told us that one
of the reasons they had not
taken these other measures that
other companies have is because
they're a newer and smaller
brand and that they're looking
now to really try to live
their mission of women who
work, which is the motto Ivanka
Trump developed at her company
throughout their
whole supply chain.
And that is something that they
said is evolving and they're
going to continue to strive to
do.
But Klem also told us that the
goal of bringing manufacturing
back to the United States for
their company was just
unrealistic, that there
aren't trained workers
that work in the apparel
industry here anymore, and,
in many cases, the machinery
doesn't even exist to do this
kind of production.
JOHN YANG: Matea, let me ask you
about something else you have
been reporting on for The Post.
The financial -- the campaign
spending records of the Trump
2020 campaign shows that they
paid money to -- they paid
fees to Donald Trump Jr.'s
lawyer before this latest story
broke about the meeting with the
Russian lawyer, and also they
reimbursed the Trump corporation
for legal consulting fees.
What's all this about?
MATEA GOLD: So, we don't have a
lot of answers from the campaign
committee, which has declined
to answer questions
about these payments.
But one thing we saw in the most
recent campaign finance filing
is that the legal fees paid
by the campaign committee
skyrocketed in the last quarter,
including a $50,000 retainer
paid to a criminal defense
attorney who is now
representing Donald Trump Jr.
This came in late June, before
President Trump himself said
he knew about this meeting in
which there were several
Russian or Russian-linked
people involved.
And it does raise questions
about whether this payment
specifically was connected to
the Russian probe.
And there was also this
reimbursement to the
Trump corporation for
legal fees, which is
the first time we have
seen Trump's own company
being reimbursed for
those kinds of service.
JOHN YANG: What does the
Federal Election Commission
say about campaign funds being
used for legal fees?
MATEA GOLD: The campaign
committees have a lot of leeway
to spend money on legal fees,
as long as the payments are
directly connected to activity
connected to the campaign.
So if the expenses wouldn't have
been incurred all but for the
campaign committee, they can
pay them.
But if they were expenses that
aren't related to political
activity, they're beyond the
purview of the committee.
The fact that these payments
were made through the reelection
committee suggests that they
are connected to some sort of
legal investigation or legal
work connected to the campaign.
JOHN YANG: Matea Gold on legal
fees being paid for by the
campaign and Ivanka Trump's
businesses, thank you very much.
MATEA GOLD: Thank you.